Do you know what custom GPTs are?
They're configurable and shareable chat experiences
with the name, logo, custom instructions,
conversation starters, access to open AI tools
and custom API actions.
And you can build them with Python.
Ian Moyer has been doing just that
and is here to share his experience building them.
This is "Talk Python to Me,"
episode 456, recorded January 22nd, 2024.
(upbeat music)
Welcome to "Talk Python to Me,"
a weekly podcast on Python.
This is your host, Michael Kennedy.
Follow me on Mastodon, where I'm @mkennedy
and follow the podcast using @talkpython,
both on fosstodon.org.
Keep up with the show and listen to over seven years
of past episodes @talkpython.fm.
We've started streaming most of our episodes live on YouTube.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel
over at talkpython.fm/youtube
to get notified about upcoming shows
and be part of that episode.
This episode is sponsored by Sentry.
Don't let those errors go unnoticed.
Use Sentry.
Get started at talkpython.fm/sentry.
And it's also brought to you by Neo4j.
It's time to stop asking relational databases
to do more than they were made for.
Check out the sample FastAPI project
and see what Neo4j, a native graph database, can do for you.
Find out more at talkpython.fm/neo4j.
Ian, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Hey, hey, Michael, good to see you again.
- Yeah, great to see you again.
It has been a little while.
It seems like not so long ago,
and yet when I pull up the episode that we did together,
sure enough, it says March 7th, 2018.
Wow.
- The years are short.
The years are short, they go by really fast.
- They sure do.
So back then, we were talking about Python
and biology and genomics,
and it sounds like you're still doing genetic-type things
and still doing Python and all that kind of stuff.
- For sure, yeah, definitely.
I work for a company called Genome Oncology.
We do precision oncology software,
helping folks make sense of genomics
and trying to help cancer patients.
- That's awesome.
There's different levels of helping people with software.
On one level, we probably have ad retargeting.
On the other, we've got medical benefits
and looking for helping people
who are suffering socially or whatever.
So it's gotta feel good to write software
that is making a difference in people's lives.
- That's right.
I did spend a lot of the 2000s making e-commerce websites,
and that wasn't exactly the most fulfilling thing.
I learned a lot, but it wasn't as exciting
as what I'm doing now,
or at least as fulfilling as what I'm doing now.
- What were those earlier websites in Python?
- That was all Java for the most part.
And finally with this company,
knocked out a prototype in Django a few years ago.
And my boss at the time was like,
"You did that so fast,
"you should do some more stuff in Python."
So that's kind of how it evolved.
And now basically most of our core backend is Python,
and we use a little bit of Svelte for the user interfaces.
- Beautiful.
It's easy to forget, like five years ago, 10 years ago,
people were questioning whether Python
should be something you should use.
Is it a real language?
Do you really use it?
Is it safe to use?
Maybe you should use a Java or a C# or something like that,
because this is a real project.
It's interesting.
You don't hear that nearly as much anymore, do you?
- I grew up with Boston sports fans,
and it was like being a Boston sports fan was terrible
for the longest time.
And now it's like,
"Okay, we don't wanna hear about your problems right now."
And same thing with Python.
It's like, "I like Python."
It's like, "Yeah, great.
"So does everybody else in the world."
So yeah, it's really not the issue anymore.
Now it's not the cool thing to play with.
So now you gotta go to Rust or something else.
- You know what's shiny?
LLMs are shiny.
- LLMs are very shiny, for sure.
- Yeah, we can talk about them today.
- Yeah, that sounds great.
Let's do it.
- First of all, we're gonna talk about building applications
that are basically powered by LLMs that you plug into.
Right? - Yep.
- Before we get into creating LLMs, just for you,
where do LLMs play a role for you
in software development these days?
- Sure.
So, you know, like everybody else,
I mean, I had been playing with,
so I do natural language processing as part of my job.
Right?
So using spaCy was a big part
of the information extraction stack that we use,
'cause we have to deal with a lot of medical data
and medical data is just unstructured
and has to be cleaned up before it can be used.
That was my exposure.
I had seen GPTs and the idea of like generating text,
just starting from that,
didn't really make much sense to me at the time.
But then obviously like everybody else,
when chatGPT came out, I was like, "Oh, I get this now."
Like this thing does, you know,
it can basically learn in the context
and it can actually produce something that's interesting
and you can use it for things like information extraction.
So just like everybody else, I kind of woke up to them,
you know, around that time that they got released
and I use them all the time.
Right?
So chatGPT4 is really what I use.
I would recommend, if you can afford the $20 a month,
it's still the best model that there is as of January 2024.
And I use that for coding.
I don't really like the coding tools, the copilots,
but there, you know,
there's definitely folks that swear by them.
So my workflow is more of, I have a problem,
work with the chatbot to try to like, you know,
think through all the edge cases and then,
and then think through the test case, the tests.
And then I think through the code, right?
And then the actual typing of the code,
yeah, I'll have it do a lot of the boilerplate stuff,
but then kind of shaping the APIs and things like that.
I kind of like to do that myself still.
I'm kind of old school, old school.
- I guess I'm old school as well.
'Cause I'm like right there with you.
But for me, I don't generally run copilot
or those kinds of things in my editors.
I do have some features turned on,
but primarily it's just really nice autocomplete.
You know what I mean?
Like, it seems like it almost just knows
what I want to type anyway, and that's getting better.
I don't know if anyone's noticed recently,
one of the recent releases of PyCharm,
it starts to autocomplete whole lines.
And I don't know where it's getting this from.
And I think I have the AI features turned off.
At least it says I have no license.
Guessing that means they're turned off.
So it must be something more built into it.
That's pretty excellent.
But for me, I find I'm pretty content
to just sit and write code.
However, the more specific the unknowns are,
the more willing I'm like,
"Oh, I need to go to ChatGPT for this."
Like, for example, like, how do you use Pydantic?
Like, well, I'll probably just go look at a quick code sample
and see that so I can understand it.
But if it's, I have this time string
with the date like this, the month like this,
and then it has the time zone like that.
How do I parse that?
Or how do I generate another one like that in Python?
And here's the answer.
Or I have this giant weird string,
and I want this part of it
as extracted with a regular expression.
And I want a regular expression.
- Regular expression, I was just gonna say that.
- Oh my gosh.
- You don't have to write another one of those.
Yeah, it's great.
- Yeah, it's pretty much like,
do you need to detect the end of a line
straight to ChatGPT?
Not really, but you know,
it's like almost any level of chat,
a regular expression.
I'm like, well, I need some AI for this.
'Cause this is not time well spent for me.
But yeah, it's interesting.
- Yeah, one big tip I would give people though
is that these chatbots, they wanna please you.
So you have to ask it to criticize you.
You have to say, here's some piece of code,
tell me all the ways it's wrong.
And you have to also ask for lots of different examples
because it just starts to get more creative,
more things that it says.
It really thinks by talking,
which is a really weird thing to consider.
But it's definitely some things to keep in mind
when you're working with these things.
- And they do have these really weird things.
Like if you compliment them, or if you ask it,
you sort of tell it, like, I really want you to tell me.
It actually makes a difference, right?
It's not just like a search engine.
Like, well, of course, what does it care?
Just you put these keywords in and they come out.
Like, no, you've kind of got to like,
know how to talk to it just a little bit.
- I've seen people threatening them,
or like saying that someone's being held ransom,
or, you know, I like to say, my boss is really mad at me.
Like, help me out here, right?
And like, see if it'll generate some better code.
- You're not being a good user.
You're trying to trick me.
I've been a good chatbot and you've been a bad user
and I'm not gonna help you anymore.
- Yeah, right.
So it was actually basically a conversation
from being in the early days.
- Yeah, the Sydney episode.
Yeah, that was crazy, right?
Super funny.
- How funny?
All right, well, I'm sure a lot of people out there
are using AI these days.
I think I saw a quote from, I think it was from GitHub,
saying over 50% of developers are using Copilot.
- For sure.
- Which, crazy, but I mean, not that surprising.
50% of the people are using Autocomplete.
So I guess it kind of, kind of like that, right?
- They're great tools.
They're gonna keep evolving.
There's some other ones I'm keeping an eye on.
There's one called Console,
which just takes a different approach.
They use some stronger models.
And then there's a website called Find, P-H-I-N-D,
that allows you to do some searching,
that they've built their own custom model.
Really interesting companies that are doing
some really cool things.
And then Perplexity is like the search replacement
that a lot of folks are very excited about using
instead of Google.
So there's a lot of different tools out there.
You could spend all your day just kind of playing around
and learning these things where you got to actually
kind of get some stuff done too.
- Yeah, you gotta pick something and go, right?
Because with all the churn and growth and experimentation
you got, you probably could try a new tool every day
and still not try them all, you know,
just be falling farther behind.
So you gotta pick something and go.
- And go, yep.
- Let's talk about writing some code.
- Yeah, the next thing you're gonna do
after you use a chatbot is to hit an API.
Like if you're gonna program an app
and that app is gonna have LLM inside of it,
large language models inside of it,
APIs are pretty much the next step, right?
So OpenAI has different models that are available.
This is a webpage that I just saw recently
that'll actually compare the different models
that are out there.
So there's obviously the big guy, which is OpenAI,
and you can get that through Azure as well
if you have a Microsoft arrangement.
And there's some security reasons or HIPAA compliance
and some other reasons that you might want to talk
through Azure instead of going directly to OpenAI.
I defer to your IT department about that.
Google has Gemini, which they just released the pro version,
which I believe is as strong as 3.5, roughly.
That is interesting because if you don't care
about them training on your data,
if like whatever you're doing is just like
not super proprietary or something
you're trying to keep secret,
they're offering free API access,
I believe 60 words per minute, right?
So basically one a second, you can call this thing
and there's no charge.
So I don't know how long that's gonna last.
So if you have an interesting project
that you wanna use in a large language model for,
you might wanna look at that.
- Yeah, especially if it's already open data
that you're playing with.
- Exactly, right.
- Or data you've somehow published to the web
that has certainly been consumed by these things.
And these models are gonna train on it, right?
That's the trade, right?
They're trying to get more tokens,
is what they call it, right?
The tokens are what they need to actually
make these models smarter.
So everyone's just hunting for more tokens
and I think this is part of their strategy for that.
And then there's also a CLAUDE by Anthropic.
And then after that, you get into the,
kind of the open source APIs as well.
- There's some really powerful open source ones out there.
Yeah, so this website, yeah, this is DocsBot,
for people listening, DocsBot.ai.
Is its sole purpose just to tell you
price comparisons and stuff like that?
Or does it have more than that?
- I assume this company's got some product,
unfortunately I don't know what it is.
I saw this link that they put out there
and it's a calculator.
So you basically can put your, what tokens,
how many tokens, there's input tokens
and there's output tokens, right?
So they're gonna charge more on the output tokens.
That's for the most part.
Some of the libraries, some of the models are more equal.
And then they, what they do is,
if you can figure out like roughly how big a message
is gonna be, both the input and the output,
how many calls you're gonna make,
you can use that to then calculate basically the cost.
And the cost is always at like tokens per thousand,
you know, or dollars or pennies really,
pennies per thousand tokens.
And then it's just a math equation at that point.
And what you'll find is calling GPT-4
is gonna be super expensive.
And then calling, you know, a small seven,
what's called a 7B model from Mistral
is gonna be the cheapest.
And you're just gonna look for these different providers.
- Wow, the prices really are different.
Like for example, opening an Azure GPT-4
is three, a little over three cents per call.
Whereas GPT-3, five turbo is one 10th of one cent.
It's a big difference there.
11 cents versus $3 to have a conversation with it.
- Yes, it's a very, very wide difference.
And it's all based on, you know,
how much compute do these models take, right?
'Cause the bigger the model, the more accurate it is.
But also the more expensive it is for them to run it.
So that's why there's such a cost difference.
- This portion of Talk Python to Me
is brought to you by Sentry.
In the last episode, I told you about how we use Sentry
to solve a tricky problem.
This time, I wanna talk about making your front end
and backend code work more tightly together.
If you're having a hard time getting a complete picture
of how your app is working and how requests flow
from the front end JavaScript app,
back to your Python services,
down into database calls for errors and performance,
you should definitely check out Sentry's distributed tracing.
With distributed tracing,
you'll be able to track your software's performance,
measure metrics like throughput and latency,
and display the impact of errors across multiple systems.
Distributed tracing makes Sentry
a more complete performance monitoring solution,
helping you diagnose problems
and measure your application's overall health more quickly.
Tracing in Sentry provides insights
such as what occurred for a specific event or issue,
the conditions that cause bottlenecks or latency issues,
and the endpoints and operations that consume the most time.
Help your front end and backend teams
work seamlessly together.
Check out Sentry's distributed tracing
at talkpython.fm/sentry-trace.
That's talkpython.fm/sentry-trace.
And when you sign up,
please use our code TALKPYTHON, all caps, no spaces,
to get more features
and let them know that you came from us.
Thank you to Sentry for supporting the show.
- Yeah, I recently interviewed,
just released a while ago,
interviewed because of time shifting,
on podcast, Mark Russinovich, CTO of Azure,
and we talked about all the crazy stuff that they're doing
for coming up with the,
just running these computers
that handle all of this compute,
and it's really a lot.
- There was a GPU shortage for a while.
I don't know if that's still going on.
And obviously, you know,
the big companies are buying hundreds of thousands
of these GPUs to get the scale they need.
- Yeah.
- And so once you figure out which API you want to use,
then you want to talk about the library.
So now, you know,
most of these providers,
they have, you know,
a Python library that they offer.
I know OpenAI does,
and Google, Gemini does,
but there's also open source ones, right?
'Cause they're not very complicated to talk to.
It's just basically HTTP requests.
So it's just really a matter of like,
what's the ergonomics you're looking for as a developer
to interact with these things.
And most importantly,
make sure you're maintaining optionality, right?
Like, it's great to do a prototype
with one of these models,
but recognize you might want to switch
either for cost reasons or performance reasons
or what have you.
And, you know,
LangChain, for instance,
has a ton of the providers as part of,
you basically are just switching a few arguments
when you're switching between them.
And then Simon Willison has, you know,
a Python fame,
has an LLM project where he's defined,
you know, basically a set of,
and it's really clean just the way he's organized it,
because you can just add plugins as you need them, right?
So you don't have to install
all the different libraries that are out there.
And I think LangChain is kind of following
a similar approach.
I think they're coming up with a LangChain core capability
where you can just kind of bring in things
as you need them.
And so the idea is you're now coding against these libraries
and you're trying to bring together, you know,
the text you need to have analyzed
or whatever your use case is,
and then it'll come back with the generation.
And you can also not just use them on the cloud,
you can use open source ones as well
and run them locally on your local computer.
- I'd never really thought about
my architectural considerations,
I guess, of these sorts of things.
But of course you want to set up
some kind of abstraction layer
so you're not completely tied into some provider.
It could be that it becomes too expensive.
It could be that it becomes too slow,
but it also might just be something that's better.
It could be something else that comes along that's better
and you're like, "Eh, we could switch.
"It's 25% better."
But it's like a week to pull all the details
of this one LLM out and put the new ones in,
and so it's not worth it, right?
So you like having, being tied to a particular database
rather than more general, it's a similar idea.
- And especially at this moment in time, right?
Every couple months, something,
so something from the bottom up
is getting better and better.
Meaning, you know, LLAMA came out a year ago,
and then LLAMA 2 and Mistral and Mixtral,
and LLAMA 3 is gonna be coming out later
this year, we believe.
And so those models, which are smaller
and cheaper and easier to use,
or not easier to use, but they're just cheaper,
is those things are happening all the time.
So being able to be flexible and nimble
and kind of change where you are
is gonna be crucial, at least for the next couple years.
- Yeah, the example that I gave was databases, right?
And databases have been kind of a known commodity
since the '80s, or what, 1980s?
And of course, there's new ones that come along,
but they're kind of all the same,
and you know, we got, there was MySQL,
now there's Postgres that people love, and right?
So that is changing way, way slower than this.
And people are like, "Well, we gotta think about
"those kinds of, like, don't get tied into that."
Well, it's way less stable.
- Right, and people, you know,
create layers of abstraction there, too,
is where you got SQLAlchemy,
and then, you know, Sebastian from FastAPI has SQLModel.
That's a layer on top of SQLAlchemy, you know,
and then there's also, you know,
folks that just like writing clean, fancy SQL,
and you can, you know, hopefully be able to port that
from database to database as well.
So it's the same principles, separation of concerns,
so you can kind of be flexible.
- All right, so you talked about LangChain.
Just give us a sense, real quick, of what LangChain is.
- This was a great project from a timing perspective.
I believe they kind of invented it
and released it right around the time ChatGPT came out.
It's a very comprehensive library with lots of,
I mean, the best part about LangChain, to me,
is the documentation and the code samples, right?
Because if you want to learn how to interact
with a different large language model
or work with a vector database,
there's another library called LamaIndex
that does a really good job at this as well.
They have tons and tons of documentation and examples,
so you can kind of look at those and try to understand it.
The chaining part really came from the idea of like,
okay, I prompt the large language model, it gives a response,
now I'm gonna take that response and prompt it,
again, with a new prompt using that output.
The challenge with that
is the reliability of these models, right?
They're not gonna get close,
they're not close to 100% accurate on these types of tasks.
The idea of agents as well is another thing
that you might build with a LangChain.
And the idea there is basically the agent is getting a task,
coming up with a plan for that task,
and then kind of stepping through those tasks
to get the job done.
Once again, we're just not there yet
as far as those technologies,
just because of the reliability.
And then there's also a bunch of security concerns
that are out there too,
that you should definitely be aware of.
Like one term to Google
and make sure you understand is prompt injection.
Right, so Simon, once again, he's got a great blog.
He's got a great blog article,
or just even that tag on his blog
is tons of articles around prompt injection.
And prompt injection is basically the idea,
you have an app, a user says something in the app,
or like types into the, to the, whatever the input is,
and whatever texts that they're sending through,
just like with SQL injection,
they kind of hijacks the conversation
and causes the large language model
to kind of do a different thing.
- Little Bobby Llama, we call him.
Instead of little Bobby Diggles.
- And then the other wild one is like, you know,
people are putting stuff up on the internet
so that when the large language model browses for webpages
and brings back text, it's, you know, reading the HTML
or reading the text in the HTML,
and it's causing the large language model
to behave in some unexpected way.
So there's lots of crazy challenges out there.
- I'm sure there's a lot of adversarial stuff
happening to these things
as they're both trying to gather data
and then trying to run, right?
I saw the most insane, I guess it was an article,
I saw it on RSS somewhere.
And it was saying that on Amazon,
there's all these knockoff brands that are trying to,
you know, instead of Gucci, you have a Gucci
or I don't know, whatever, right?
And they're getting so lazy.
I don't know what the right word is,
that they're using LLMs to try to write a description
that is sort of in the style of Gucci, let's say.
And it'll come back and say,
I'm sorry, I'm a large language model.
I'm not, my rules forbid me
from doing brand trademark violation.
That's what the Amazon listing says on Amazon.
They just take it and they just straight pump it straight,
whatever it says, it just goes straight into Amazon.
- Yeah, you have to like Google, like,
sorry, I'm not, sorry, as a large language model
or sorry as a whatever.
Yeah, you can find all. - Exactly.
And there's like, the product listings are full of that.
It's amazing.
It's amazing. - It's crazy.
- Certainly the reliability of that is, you know,
they could probably use some testing
and those kinds of things.
- For sure. - Someone out there asks,
like, I wonder if for local LLM models,
there's a similar site as DocSpot
that show you like what you need to run it locally.
So that's an interesting question also,
segue to maybe talk about like some local stuff.
- LLM Studio, this is a new product.
I honestly haven't had a chance to like really dig in
and understand who created this.
And, you know, make sure that the privacy stuff
is up to snuff, but I've played around with it locally.
It seems to work great.
It's really slick, really nice user interface.
So if you're just wanting to get your feet wet
and try to understand some of these models,
I'd download that and check it out.
There's a ton of models up on Hugging Face.
This product seems to just basically link right
into the Hugging Face interface and grabs models.
And so some of the models you wanna look for
are right now as in January, right?
There's Mistral 7B, you know, M-I-S-T-R-A-L.
There's another one called Phi 2.
Those are two of the smaller models
that should run pretty well on, you know,
like a commercial grade GPU or an M1 or an M2 Mac,
if that's what you have and start playing with them.
And they're quantized, which means they're just kind of
made a little, take a little bit less space,
which is good from like a virtual RAM
with regards to these GPUs.
And, you know, there's a account on Hugging Face
called The Bloke.
If you look for him, you'll see all his different fine,
his different fine tunes and things like that.
And there's a group called Noose,
I think is how you pronounce it, N-O-U-S.
And they've got some of the fine tunes
that are basically the highest performing ones
that are out there.
So if you're really looking for a high performing
local model that can actually, you know,
help you with code or reasoning,
those are definitely the way to get started.
- Yeah, this one seems pretty nice.
I also haven't played with it, I just learned about it,
but it's looking really good.
I had played with, what was it, GPT for All,
I think is what it was.
- Yep, yep.
- It was the one that I played with.
Somehow this looks like,
looks a little bit nicer than that for some,
I don't know how different it really is, but.
- I mean, it's all the idea of like downloading these files
and running them locally.
And these are just user interfaces
that make it a little easier.
The original project that made this stuff kind of possible
was a project called Llama CPP.
There's a Python library that can work with that directly.
There's another project called Llama File,
where if you download the whole thing,
it actually runs no matter where you are.
I think it runs on Mac and Linux and Windows and BSD
or whatever it is.
And it's, I mean, it's an amazing technology
that this one put together, it's really impressive.
And then, you can actually just use Google Colab too, right?
So Google Colab has some GPUs with it.
I think if you upgrade it to the $10 a month version,
I think you get some better GPUs access.
So if you actually wanna get a hand of like running,
and so this is a little bit different, right?
So instead of calling an API,
when you're using Google Colab,
you can actually use a library called Hugging Face,
and then you can actually load these things directly
into your memory, and then into your actual Python
environment, and then you're working with it directly.
So it just takes a little bit of work
to make sure you're running it on the GPU,
'cause if you're running it on the CPU,
it's gonna be a lot slower.
- Yeah, it definitely makes a big difference.
There's a tool that I use that for a long time
ran on the CPU, and they rewrote it to run on the GPU.
Even on my M2 Pro, it was like three times faster
or something, yeah. - For sure.
- Yeah, it makes a big difference.
- So with the LM Studio, let's you run the LMs offline
and use models through an OpenAI,
that's what I was looking for,
the OpenAI compatible local server.
- Right. - You could basically
get an API for any of these,
and then start programming against it, right?
- Exactly right, and it's basically the same interface,
right, so same APIs for posting in response
of the JSON schema that's going back and forth.
So you're programming against that interface,
and then you basically port it and move it to another,
to the OpenAI models if you wanted to as well.
So everyone's kind of coalescing around OpenAI
as kind of like the quote unquote standard,
but there's nothing, you know, there's really no,
there's no mode around that standard as well, right,
'cause anybody can kind of adopt it and use it.
- There's not like a W3C committee choosing.
- Correct.
- The market will choose for us, let's go.
- It seems to be working out well,
and that's another benefit of Simon's LLM project, right,
he's got the ability to kind of switch back and forth
between these different libraries and APIs as well.
- This LLM studio says,
"This app does not collect data nor monitor your actions.
"Your data stays local on your machine,
"free for personal use."
All that sounds great.
"For business use, please get in touch."
I always just like these like,
if you gotta ask, it's too much type of like.
- Probably, yeah.
I'm using it for personal use,
just so if anybody's watching, yes, just plain.
- Either they just haven't thought it through
and they just don't wanna talk about it yet,
or it's really expensive.
I just probably imagine it's probably,
it's like, ah, we haven't figured out a business model,
just, I don't know, shoot us a note.
- Nope, they're concentrating on the product,
which makes sense.
- Yeah, so then the other one is LLMafile,
LLMafile.ai that you mentioned,
and this packages it up.
I guess, going back to the LLM studio real quick,
one of the things that's cool about this
is if it's the open AI API, right,
with this little local server that you can play with,
but then you can pick LLMs such as LLM, Falcon,
Replit, all the different ones, right,
Starcoder and so on.
It would let you write an app
as if it was going to open AI
and then just start swapping in models
and go like, oh, if we switch to this model, how'd that work?
But you don't even have to change any code, right?
Just probably maybe a string that says which model
to initialize.
- One of the tricks though is then the prompts themselves.
- All right, let's talk about it.
- Yeah, the models themselves act differently,
and part of this whole world
is what they call prompt engineering, right?
So prompt engineering is really just exploring
how to interact with these models,
how to make sure that they're kind of in the right mind space
to tackle your problem.
A lot of the times that people get,
when they struggle with these things,
it's really just, they'd really got to think
more like a psychiatrist when they're working with a model,
you know, basically getting them kind of prepared.
One of the tricks people did, figured out early,
was you're a genius at software development,
like compliment the thing, make it feel like,
oh, I'm going to behave like I'm
a world rockstar programmer, right?
- Well, it's going to give you average,
but if you tell them I'm genius, then let's start,
we'll do that, yeah.
- And there was also a theory like that in December
that the large language models were getting dumber
because it was the holidays
and people don't work as hard, right?
Like, it's really hard to know
like which of these things are true or not,
but it's definitely true that each model
is a little bit different,
and if you write a prompt that works really well
on one model, even if it's a stronger model
or a weaker model, and then you port it to another model
and it's, you know, then the stronger model works worse,
right, it can be very counterintuitive at times
and you've got to test things out,
and that really gets to the idea of evals, right?
So evaluation is really a key problem, right?
Making sure that if you're going to be writing prompts
and you're going to be building, you know,
different retrieval augmented generation solutions,
you need to know about prompt injection
and you need to know about prompt engineering
and you need to know what these things can and can't do.
One trick is what they call few-shot prompting,
which is, you know, if you want it to do data extraction,
you can say, oh, okay, I want you to extract data
from text that I give you in JSON.
If you give it a few examples,
like wildly different examples,
because giving it a bunch of similar stuff,
it might kind of cause it to just coalesce
around those similar examples,
but if you can give it a wildly different set of examples,
that's called in-context learning or few-shot prompting,
and it will do a better job at that specific task for you.
- That's super neat.
When you're creating your apps,
do you do things like, here's the input from the program
or from the user or wherever it came from,
but maybe before that,
you give it like three or four prompts
and then let it have the question, right,
instead of just taking the text,
like, I'm gonna ask you questions about biology and genetics
and it's gonna be under this context,
and I want you to favor these data sources.
Now ask your question, something like this.
- For sure, all those types of strategies
are worth experimenting with, right?
Like, what actually will work for your scenario?
I can't tell you, right?
You gotta dig in, you gotta figure it out,
and you gotta try different things.
- You're about to win the Nobel Prize
in genetics for your work.
Now I need to ask you some questions.
- For sure, that'll definitely work,
and then threatening it that your boss is mad at you
is also gonna help you too, right, for sure.
- If I don't solve this problem, I'm gonna get fired.
As a large language model, I can't tell you,
but I'm gonna be fired.
All right, well, then the answer is.
- Exactly right.
- So for these, they run, like you said,
they run pretty much locally,
these different models on LM Studio and others,
like the LLAMA file and so on.
If I had a laptop, I don't need a cluster.
LLAMA CPP is really the project that should get
all the credit for making this work on your laptops.
And then LLAMA file and LLAMA CPP all have servers.
So I'm guessing LM Studio is just exposing that server.
And that's in the base LLAMA CPP project.
That's really what it is.
It's really just about now you can post your requests.
It's handling all of the work with regards
to the token generation on the backend using LLAMA CPP,
and then it's returning it to you
using the HTTP kind of processes.
- Is LLAMA originally from Meta?
Is that where that came from?
- I think there were people that were kind of using that LLM.
Right, I think people were kind of keying off
the LLAMA thing at one point.
I think LLAMA Index, for instance,
I think that project was originally called GPT Index,
and they decided, oh, I don't want to be like,
I don't want to confuse myself with OpenAI
or confuse my project with OpenAI,
so they switched to LLAMA Index.
And then of course, Meta released LLAMA.
So you can't, you kind of,
and then everything from there has kind of evolved too,
right, there's been alpacas
and a bunch of other stuff as well.
- You gotta know your animals, yeah.
If you don't know your animals,
you can't figure out the heritage of these projects.
- Correct.
LLAMA from Meta was the first open source,
I'd say large language model of note,
I guess, since ChatGPT.
There were certainly other, you know,
I'm not a, so one thing to caveat,
I am not a researcher, right?
So there's lots of folks in the ML research community
that know way more than I do.
But, because there was like Bloom and T5
and a few other large, you know,
quote unquote large language models.
But LLAMA, after ChatGPT,
LLAMA was the big release that came from Meta
in I think March.
And then, and that was from Meta.
And then they had it released
under just like research use terms.
And then only certain people could get access to it.
And then someone put a, I guess,
put like a BitTorrent link or something on GitHub.
And then basically the world had it.
And then they did end up releasing LLAMA 2
a few months later with more friendly terms.
So that, and it was a much stronger model as well.
- Nice.
It's kind of the realization,
like, well, if it's gonna be out there anyway,
let's at least get credit for it then.
- For sure.
And I did read something where like basically
Facebook approached OpenAI for access to their models
to help them write code.
But the cost was so high
that they decided to just go build their own, right?
So it's kind of interesting how this stuff has evolved.
- Like, you know, we got a big cluster of computers too.
- Metaverse thing doesn't seem to be working yet.
So let's go ahead and train a bunch of
large language models.
- Yeah, exactly.
We've got some spare capacity over in the Metaverse
data center.
All right, so one of the things that people
will maybe talk about in this space is
RAG or retrieval augmented generation.
What's this?
- One thing to recognize is that large language models,
if it's not in the training set,
and it's not in the prompt,
it really doesn't know about it.
And the question of like, what's reasoning
and what's, you know, generalizing and things like that,
those are big debates that people are having.
What's intelligence, what have you.
Recognizing the fact that you have this prompt
and things you put in the prompt,
the large language model can understand
and extrapolate from is really powerful.
So, and that's called in context learning.
So retrieval augmented generation is the idea of,
okay, I'm going to maybe ask,
allow a person to ask a question.
This is kind of like the common use case that I see.
User asks a question,
we're going to take that question,
find the relevant content,
put that content in the prompt,
and then do something with it, right?
So it might be something like, you know,
ask a question about, you know,
how tall is the Leaning Tower of Pisa, right?
And so now it's going to go off and find that piece
of content from Wikipedia or what have you,
and then put that information in the prompt,
and then now the model can then respond
to that question based on that text.
Obviously that's a pretty simple example,
but you can get more complicated
and it's going out and bringing back
lots of different content, slicing it up,
putting in the prompt and asking a question.
So now the trick is, okay,
how do you actually get that content
and how do you do that?
Well, you know, information retrieval,
search engines and things like that,
that's obviously the technique.
But one of the key techniques that people have been,
you know, kind of discovering, rediscovering, I guess,
is this idea of word embeddings or vectors.
And so Word2Vec was this project
that came out, I think, 11 years ago or so.
And, you know, there was a big,
the big meme around that was,
you could take the embedding for the word king,
you could then subtract the embedding for the word man,
add the word embedding for woman,
and then the end math result would actually be close
to the embedding for the word queen.
And so what is an embedding?
What's a vector?
It's basically this large floating point number
that has semantic meaning inferred into it.
And it's built just by training a model.
So just like you train a large language model,
they can trade these embedding models
to basically take a word and then take a sentence
and then take a, you know, a document,
is what, you know, OpenAI can do,
and turn that into this big giant 200, 800, 1500,
you know, depending on the size of the embedding,
floating point numbers,
and then use that as a, what's called,
you know, semantic similarity search.
So you're basically going off
and asking for similar documents.
And so you get those documents,
and then you make your prompt.
- It's really wild.
So, you know, we're gonna make an 800 dimensional space,
and each concept gets a location in that space,
and then you're gonna get another concept as a prompt,
and you say, what other things in this space are near it?
- The hard problems that remain are,
well, first you gotta figure out what you're trying to solve.
So once you figure out what you're actually trying to solve,
then you can start asking yourself questions like,
okay, well, how do I chunk up the documents that I have?
Right, and there's all these different,
and there's another great place
for Lama Index and Lang Chain.
They have chunking strategies,
where they all take a big giant document
and break it down into sections,
and then you chunk each section,
and then you do the embedding on just that small section.
Because the idea being,
can you get, you know, finer and finer sets of text
that you can then, when you do your retrieval,
you get the right information back.
And then the other challenge is really like
the question answer problem, right?
If a person's asking a question,
how do you turn that question
into the same kind of embedding space as the answer?
And so there's lots of different strategies
that are out there for that.
And then another problem is,
if you're looking at the Wikipedia page
for the Tower of Pisa,
it might actually have like a sentence in here
that says it is X number of meters tall or feet tall,
but it won't actually have the word Tower of Pisa in it.
So there's another chunking strategy
where they call it propositional trunking,
where they basically use a large language model
to actually redefine each sentence
so that it actually has those proper nouns baked into it
so that when you do the embedding,
it doesn't lose some of the detail with propositions.
- It's this tall, but-
- It is.
- It's something that plays this tall
with its actual height and things like that.
- Correct.
- Crazy.
- But fundamentally you're working with unstructured data
and it's kind of messy
and it's not always gonna work the way you want.
And there's a lot of challenges
and people are trying lots of different things
to make it better.
- That's cool.
It's not always deterministic or exactly the same.
So that can be tricky as well.
This portion of Talk Python to Me
is brought to you by Neo4j.
Do you know Neo4j?
Neo4j is a native graph database.
And if the slowest part of your data access patterns
involves computing relationships,
why not use a database that stores those relationships
directly in the database,
unlike your typical relational one?
A graph database lets you model the data
the way it looks in the real world,
instead of forcing it into rows and columns.
It's time to stop asking a relational database
to do more than they were made for
and simplify complex data models with graphs.
If you haven't used a graph database before,
you might be wondering about common use cases.
You know, what's it for?
Here are just a few.
Detecting fraud, enhancing AI, managing supply chains,
gaining a 360 degree view of your data
and anywhere else you have highly connected data.
To use Neo4j from Python,
it's a simple pip install Neo4j.
And to help you get started,
their docs include a sample web app
demonstrating how to use it both from Flask and FastAPI.
Find it in their docs or search GitHub
for Neo4j movies application quick start.
Developers are solving some of the world's
biggest problems with graphs.
Now it's your turn.
Visit talkpython.fm/neo4j to get started.
That's talkpython.fm/neo, the number four and the letter J.
Thank you to Neo4j for supporting Talk Python to Me.
One of the big parts of at least this embedding stuff
you're talking about are vector databases.
And they used to be really rare
and kind of their own specialized thing.
Now they're starting to show up in lots of places.
And you shared with us this link of vector DB comparison.
I just saw that MongoDB added it.
I'm like, I didn't know that had anything to do with that.
I'm probably not gonna mess with it,
but it's interesting that it's just like finding its way
in all these different spaces, you know?
- It was weird there for a couple of years
where people were basically like talking
about vector databases,
like they're their own separate thing.
The vector databases are now becoming
their own fully fledged,
either relational database or a graph database
or a search engine, right?
Those are kind of the three categories where,
I mean, I guess Redis is its own thing too.
But for the most part, those new databases,
quote unquote, are now kind of trying
to be more fully fledged.
And vectors and semantic search is really just one feature.
- I was just thinking that is this thing
that you're talking about, is it a product
or is it a feature of a bigger product, right?
- Correct.
- If you already got a database,
it's already doing a bunch of things.
Did it just answer the vector question?
Maybe, maybe not, I don't know.
- Exactly right.
And the one thing to recognize is that,
and then the other thing people do
is they just take NumPy or what have you
and just load them all into memory.
And if you don't have that much data,
that's actually probably gonna be the fastest
and simplest way to work.
But the thing you gotta recognize is the fact
that there is precision and recall
and cost trade-off that happens as well.
So they have to index these vectors
and there's different algorithms that are used
and different algorithms do better than others.
So you gotta make sure you understand that as well.
So, and one thing you can do is for instance,
pgVector, which comes as an extension for Postgres,
you can start off by not indexing at all.
And you should get, I believe,
hopefully I'm not misspeaking,
you should get perfect recall,
meaning you'll get the right answer.
You'll get the, if you ask for the five closest vectors
to your query, you'll get the five closest,
but it'll be slower than you probably want.
So then you have to index it.
And then what ends up happening is,
the next time you might only get four of those five.
You'll get something else that snuck into that list.
- If you got time, you're willing to spend unlimited time,
then you can get the right answer, the exact answer.
But I guess that's all sorts of heuristics, right?
You're like, I could spend three days
or I could do a Monte Carlo thing
and I could give you the answer in a fraction of a second.
But it's not deterministic.
All right, so then I won't go with my camera,
so I turn it off, I don't know what's up with it,
but we'll, yeah.
So you wrote a cool blog post called,
"What is a Custom GPT?"
And we wanna talk some about building custom GPTs
and with SAPI and so on.
So let's talk about this.
Like one of the, I think one of the challenges
in why it takes so much compute for these systems
is like, they're open-ended.
You can ask me any question about any knowledge in the world
in the humankind, right?
You can ask about that, let's start talking.
Or it could be, you can ask me about genetics, right?
That seems like you could both get better answers
if you actually only care about genetic responses.
You know, how tall is the Leaning Tower?
And probably make it smaller, right?
So is that kind of the idea of these custom GPTs
or what is it?
- No, so custom GPTs are new capability from OpenAI.
And basically they are a wrapper around a very small subset,
but it's still using the OpenAI ecosystem, okay?
And so what you do is you give it a name,
you give it a logo, you give it a prompt.
And then from there, you can also give it knowledge.
You can upload PDF documents to it
and it will actually slice and dice those PDF documents
using some sort of vector search.
We don't know how it actually works.
The GPT, the cool thing is the GPT will work on your phone,
right?
So I have my phone, I can have a conversation with my phone.
I can take a picture, upload a picture
and it will do vision analysis on it.
So I get all the capabilities of OpenAI GPT-4.
But a custom GPT is one that I can construct
and give a custom prompt to, which basically then says,
okay, now you're, and to your point,
I think maybe this is where you're going with it.
Like, hey, now you're an expert in genomics
or you're an expert in something
and you're basically coaching the language model
and what it can and can't do.
And so it's a targeted experience
within the large language, within the ChatGPT ecosystem.
It has access to also the OpenAI tools.
Like so OpenAI has the ability to do code interpreter
and Dolly, and it can also hit the web browser.
So you have access to everything.
But the interesting thing to me is the fact
that you can actually tie this thing
to what are called actions.
So March, I think of last year,
they actually had this capability called plugins
that they announced.
And plugins have kind of faded to the background.
I don't know if they're gonna deprecate them officially,
but the basic gist with plugins is what was,
you could turn that on and it can then call your API.
And the cool thing about it was
that it read your OpenAPI spec, right?
So you write an OpenAPI spec, which is Swagger,
if you're familiar with Swagger,
and it basically defines what all the endpoints are,
what the path is, what the inputs and outputs are,
including classes or field level information
and any constraints or what have you.
So you can fully define your OpenAPI spec,
it can then call that OpenAPI spec,
and it's basically giving it tools.
So like the example that they say in the documentation
is get the weather, right?
So if you say, what's the weather in Boston?
Well, Chetchi BT doesn't know the weather in Boston.
All it knows how to do is call it,
but you can call an API and it figures out
how to call the API, get that information,
and then it can use that to redisplay.
And that's a very basic example.
You can do way more complicated things than that.
It's pretty powerful.
- Okay, that sounds really pretty awesome.
I thought a lot about different things that I might build.
On your blog post here, you've got some key benefits
and you've got some risks.
You maybe wanna talk a bit about that?
- Yeah, so the first part with plugins that was wrong,
was that didn't work as well,
is that there was no kind of overarching custom instruction
that could actually teach it how to work with your plugin.
So if you couldn't put it in the API spec,
then you couldn't like integrate it
with a bunch of other stuff or other capabilities, right?
So the custom instruction is really a key thing
for making these custom APIs strong.
But one warning about the custom instruction,
whatever you put in there, anybody can download, right?
Not just the folks at OpenAI, anybody.
Like basically there's GitHub projects
where like thousands of these custom prompts
that people have put into their GPT.
So, and there are now knockoffs on GPT.
So it's all kind of a mess right now in the OpenAI store.
I'm sure they'll clean it up,
but just recognize the custom instruction is not protected
and neither is the knowledge.
So if you upload a PDF, there have been people
that have been figuring out how to like download those PDFs.
And I think that that might be a solved problem now
or they're working on it, but it's something to know.
The other problem with plugins was,
I can get a plugin working,
but if they didn't approve my plugin
and put it in their plugin store,
I couldn't share it with other people.
The way it works now is I can actually make a GPT
and I can give it to you and you can use it directly,
even if it's not in the OpenAPI store or OpenAI store.
You know, it is super easy to get started.
They have like a tool to like help you generate
your DALI picture and actually you don't even have to figure
out how to do the custom instructions yourself.
You can just kind of chat that into existence.
But the thing that I'm really excited about
is that this is like free playing.
Like you could do, so the hosting cost
is basically all on the client side.
You have to be a ChatGPT plus user right now
to create these and use these.
But the cool thing as a developer,
I don't have to pay those API fees
that we were talking about, right?
And if I need to use GPT-4,
which I kind of do for my business right now,
just because of how complicated it is,
I don't have to pay those token fees
for folks using my custom GPT at this moment.
- Where's like the billing or whatever you call it
for the custom GPT lies that in the person who's using it,
does it have to, it goes onto their account
and whatever their account can do and afford?
- Yeah, right now, OpenAPI,
OpenAI ChatGPT plus is $20 a month.
And then there's a team's version,
which I think is either 25 or 30,
depending on the number of users or how you pay for it.
That's the cost.
So right now, if you want to use custom GPTs,
everyone needs to be a ChatGPT plus user.
There's no extra cost based on usage or anything like that.
In fact, there's talk about revenue sharing
between OpenAI and developers of custom GPTs,
but that has not come out yet
as far as like what those details are.
- It does have an App Store feel to it, doesn't it?
- There's risks too, right?
Obviously anybody can,
there's already been like tons of copies up there.
OpenAI, they're looking for their business model too, right?
So they could, if someone has a very successful custom GPT,
it's well within their right to kind of add that
to the base product as well.
Injection is still a thing.
So if you're doing anything in your actions
that actually changes something,
that is consequential is what they call it,
you better think very carefully,
like what's the worst thing that could happen, right?
'Cause whatever the worst thing that could happen is,
that's what's gonna happen.
'Cause people can figure this stuff out
and they can confuse the large language models
into calling them.
- And the more valuable it is
that they can make that thing happen,
the more effort they're gonna put into it as well.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- For sure.
- I was gonna ask,
do you think it's easy to solve SQL injection
and other forms of injection, at least in principle, right?
There's a education problem,
there's millions of people coming along as developers
and they see some demo that says,
the query is like this plus the name.
Wait a minute, wait.
So it kind of recreates itself through not total awareness,
but there is a very clear thing you do solve that,
you use parameters, you don't concatenate strings
with user input, problem solved.
What about prompt injection though?
It's so vague how these AIs know what to do
in the first place.
And so then how do you completely block that off?
- Unsolved problem.
I'm definitely stealing from Simon on this
'cause I've heard him say it on a few podcasts
is just basically there's no solution as far as we know.
So you have to design,
and there's no solution to the hallucination problem either
'cause that's a feature, right?
That's actually what the thing is supposed to do.
So when you're building these systems,
you have to recognize those two facts
along with some other facts that really limit
what you can build with these things.
- So you shouldn't use it for like legal briefs,
is that what you're saying?
- I think these things are great collaborative tools, right?
The human in the loop,
and that's everything that I'm building, right?
So all the stuff that I'm building is assuming
that the human's in the loop,
and what I'm trying to do is augment and amplify expertise.
I'm building tools for people that know about genomics
and cancer and how to help cancer patients.
I'm not designing it for cancer patients
who are gonna go operate on themselves, right?
Like that's not the goal.
The idea is there's a lot of information.
These tools are super valuable
from like synthesizing a variety of info,
but you still need to look at the underlying citations.
And ChatGPT by itself can't give you citations.
Like it'll make some up.
It'll say, "Oh, I think there's probably
"a Wikipedia page with this link."
But you actually have to,
you definitely have to have an outside tool,
either the web, Bing, which is, I would say,
subpar for a lot of use cases,
or you have to have actions
that can actually bring back references
and give you those links.
And then the expert will then say,
"Oh, okay, great.
"Thanks for synthesizing this, giving me this info.
"Let me go validate this myself."
Right, go click on the link and go validate it.
And that's really, I think that's really the sweet spot
for these things, at least for the near future.
- Yeah, don't ask it for the answer.
Ask it to help you come up with the answer, right?
- Exactly right. - All right.
- And then have it criticize you when you do have something
'cause then it'll do a great job
of telling you everything you've done wrong.
- I'm feeling too good about myself.
I need you to insult me a lot.
Let's get going.
All right, speaking of talking about ourselves,
you've got this project called PyPI GPT.
What's this about?
- I really wanted to tell people that FastAPI and Pydantic,
'cause Python, like we were saying earlier,
I don't know if it was on the call or not,
but Python is the winning language, right?
And I think FastAPI and Pydantic are the winning libraries
in their respective fields, and they're great.
And they're perfect for this space
because you need an open API spec.
English is the new programming language, right?
So Andrej Koparthe, who used to work at Tesla
and now works at OpenAI, has this pinned tweet
where he's basically like,
"English is the hottest programming language,"
or something like that.
And that's really the truth,
'cause even in this space
where I'm building an open API spec,
99% of the work is thinking about the description
of the endpoints or the description of the fields
or codifying the constraints on different fields.
Like you can use these greater thans and less thans
and regexes, right, to describe it.
And so what I did was I said,
"Okay, let's build this thing in FastAPI,"
just to get an example out for folks.
And then I turned it on.
I actually use ngrok as my service layer
'cause you have to have HTTPS to make this thing work.
- Ngrok is so good.
- Yep. - Yeah.
- I turned that on with an nginx thing in front of it.
So this library, to actually use it,
you'll have to actually set that stuff up yourself.
You have to download it, you have to run it,
you have to either get it on a server with HTTPS
with Let's Encrypt or something.
Once you've turned it on,
then you can actually see how it generates
the OpenAPI spec, how to configure the GPT.
I didn't do much work with regards
to the custom instructions that I came up with.
I just said, "Hey, call my API, figure it out."
And it does.
And so what this GPT does is it basically says,
"Okay, given a package name and a version number,
it's gonna go and grab this data
from the SQLite database that I found
that has this information and then bring it back to you."
It's the least interesting GPT I could come up with, I guess.
But it shows kind of the mechanics, right?
The mechanics of setting up the servers
and the application within FastAPI,
the kind of the little things,
the little bits that you have to flip
to make sure that OpenAPIs or OpenAI
can understand your OpenAPI spec,
bumble through OpenAI and OpenAPI all the time,
and make sure that they can talk to each other.
And then it will then do the right thing
and call your server and bring the answers back.
And there's a bunch of little flags and information
you need to know about actions
that are on the OpenAPI documentation.
And so I tried to pull that all together
into one simple little project for people to look at.
- It's cool.
So you can ask it questions like,
"Tell me about FastAPI, this version."
And it'll come back and-
- I was hoping to do something a little better,
like, "Hey, here's my requirements file."
And go, "Tell me,
am I on the latest version of everything?"
Or whatever, something more interesting.
I just didn't have time.
- Can you ask it questions such as,
"What's the difference between this version
and that version?"
- You could, if that information's in the database.
I actually don't know if it is.
And then obviously you could also hit the PyPI server.
And I didn't do that.
I just wanted to,
I don't wanna be hitting anybody's server
indiscriminately at this point.
But that would be a great use case, right?
So someone could take this
and certainly add some capabilities.
The thing that is valuable that I'm trying to showcase
is the fact that ChatGPT and large language models,
while they do have the world's information
kind of compressed at a point in time,
they are still not a database, right?
They don't do well when you're basically trying
to make sure you have a comprehensive query
and you've brought back all the information.
And they're also not good from like a
up-to-date perspective, right?
There's a cutoff date.
Thankfully, they finally updated that recently.
I think it's now April of 2023.
But at some point,
it just doesn't know about newer things.
And so a GPT is a really interesting way of doing that.
I'm gonna put it out in the universe
and hopefully someone will do it.
Make me a modern Python GPT,
which is basically like,
get the new version of Pydantic and Polars
and a few other libraries that ChatGPT does a bad job at
just because they're in underactive development
during the time that ChatGPT was getting trained.
So that's the perfect use cases
for these types of custom GPTs with knowledge
in a PDF file or an API backing it up.
- I think there's a ton of value in being able to feed
a little bit of your information,
some of your documents or your code repository
or something to a GPT
and then be able to ask it questions about it, right?
- Yeah.
- Like, you know,
tell me about the security vulnerabilities
that you see in the code.
Like, is there anywhere where I'm missing some tests
or I'm calling a function in a way that's known to be bad
and you know, like that kind of stuff is really tricky.
But it's also tricky because it doesn't,
even if you paste in a little bit of code,
it's not the whole project, right?
So, you know, to put a little bit more in there
is pretty awesome.
- Yeah, being able to give it all the code
from some of these code repositories, right?
Like, and bringing back the relevant information.
So I think there is a kind of this race.
There's gonna be other, you know, cool,
there's another cool project called SourceGraph and Cody
that we can talk about that will, you know,
run on your local server and basically indexes
your code base and it'll bring back relevant snippets
from your code base and answer questions kind of in context.
And, you know, long-term and the new project,
I don't know how new, Codeium,
they had a new paper where they talked about
flow engineering and flow engineering is just basically
that same concept of the human in the loop
with the LLM, with the code,
that's the magic combination of kind of those people,
those entities kind of iterating with each other.
I think these, you know,
these tools are definitely gonna evolve
and you really wanna have the ability to have access
to your specific information
to answer your specific questions.
- Cody is new to me, Cody.dev.
And this little subtitle or whatever is,
Cody is a coding assistant that uses AI,
understand your code base, right?
It was saying, it was about your entire code base,
APIs, implementations, and idioms.
Like that's kind of what I was suggesting,
at least for code, right?
- Yeah, and Sourcegraph,
those folks really understand code indexing and searching.
Like that's what the first product was.
They were kind of just teed up,
ready for this large language model moment.
And then they said, "Oh, let's just put Cody on top of that.
"So this thing will run, it will understand your code
"and it will kind of bring things together for you."
So these folks do podcasts all the time.
I'd reach out to them.
- Yeah, interesting.
It's quite neat looking.
Think I'm gonna give it a try.
It both plugs into HRM and VS Code.
That's pretty neat.
- Very cool.
- We're starting to get a little bit short on time here,
but for people who wanna play with the PyPI GPT,
maybe as an example,
to just cut the readme and it's easy to get from there.
What do you need to tell them?
- I put a make file in there,
so you know exactly like the steps
to kind of make the environment,
download the files and just ping me,
follow me on Twitter, iMore,
and ping me if you need anything there.
I'm also on LinkedIn and GitHub, right?
So you can certainly reach out if you have any challenges.
- Excellent.
- The last thing that folks
that are actually in the medical space, right?
So the thing that I'm working on right now actively
is how to integrate this thing with our knowledge base, right?
So I have a knowledge base of hand curated trials
and curated therapies and other information,
built it so that my custom GPT can actually work with that,
come up with some, I'd say novel.
I always haven't seen anybody else
and I haven't seen any research
approaching things the same way I am
that handles some of the other challenges
that are out there, right?
So for instance, the context window is a challenge.
So the context window is the amount of text that's in there
and how it gets processed.
If you're making decisions and you're changing course,
the chatbot will lose track of those changes, right?
So if you're experimenting or going down one path of inquiry
and then you switch to another path,
it can get confused and forget that you switched paths.
- Or just run out of space to hold all that information.
Like, well, it forgot the last three things
or the first three things you told it.
It only knows four and you think it knows seven
and it's working incomplete, right?
- Yep.
And one of the key things is
you actually want it to forget some things as well, right?
So those are all interesting challenges.
And I'm actually working with these custom GPTs
to kind of change the way that the collaboration works
between the human, the expert,
the large language model or the assistant
and my backend, my actual retrieval model,
the API that's actually doing stuff.
- So are researchers and MDs and PhDs at your company
talking with this thing and making use of it?
- Yeah, I mean, we're in active development right now.
We have a few key opinion leaders
that are working with us and collaborating with us,
but we're always looking for more folks
that are in the field that actually...
And right now you need kind of the cutting edge people.
This stuff's not ready for prime time.
Clinical decision support is a really hard problem,
but we need the folks that wanna get ahead of it
'cause we know that there are doctors
and there are patients that are asking
ChatGPT questions right now.
And even if it says, I'm not a medical expert, blah, blah,
blah, and at the end of the day,
we actually don't have enough doctors, right?
That's the other scary thing
is we don't have enough doctors, patients want answers.
How do we build solutions that can allow this expertise
to get more democratized and more into folks' hands?
And I'm hoping our tool along with
these large language models can help
relieve some of that burden.
- It might not be as 100% accurate, 100% precise,
but neither are doctors, right?
They get stuff wrong.
You just need to be in the realm of as good as a doctor.
You don't need to be completely without making a mistake.
And that's, I think, a challenge
that we're just gonna have to get used to in general.
I joked about the legal brief thing
'cause someone got in trouble for submitting a brief
that had hallucinations in it.
And there's certain circumstances
where maybe it's just not acceptable,
but AI self-driven cars, people crash,
but that's a human mistake.
But when a machine makes it,
it's a pre-programmed, predetermined mistake.
Something like that.
It doesn't feel the same as if the machine made a mistake.
So if a machine makes a recommendation
like you need this cancer treatment,
or you're fine, you don't need it, and it was wrong,
people are not gonna be as forgiving.
But it doesn't mean there's not value
to be gained from systems that can help you, right?
- I always appreciate those machine learning papers
that'll show the tracking over time
of how the models have gotten better and better,
and they put the human in there,
and you can see that the human has already gotten eclipsed
by the models, and that's a specific problem, right?
'Cause it's also recognizing that a lot of this stuff,
these models that are doing tasks
are doing one specific task.
They're not doing a whole job.
They're not doing an end-to-end process.
They're answering a medical question,
or they're looking at an image
and finding all the cats or whatever it's supposed to do.
So, and to your point, though,
humans aren't perfect at these tasks either.
- I think mostly people are gonna be using
this kind of stuff to help them
come up with these answers, right?
My weird Amazon description example
is gonna be the edge case, not the go-to.
- Agreed.
- Yeah, you came in, you spoke to the chatbot,
here's your diagnosis, have a good day, right?
Not so much, more like,
I need some help thinking through this.
What are some studies that have addressed this, right?
And those kind of questions.
- And I hesitate to say it's just a better search engine,
'cause I actually think it's got
way more potential than that.
- I agree.
- It can have a conversation,
it can iterate back and forth,
and what I'm actually trying to do
is build some state into it, right?
Some structured way of kind of remembering
what the conversation was,
and using a lot of the techniques
that these large language models are good at
to actually, to make that actually happen.
And so that you can actually build a system
so that the human and the assistant and the backend
all kind of know what the other party is thinking about
and that they all work together.
- Nice.
For your genomics custom GPT thing
that you're making internally,
is that gonna become a product eventually
if other people are interested?
Is there some way they can keep tabs on it,
or is it just internal only?
- Definitely reach out to me.
So we're building different versions of GPTs.
Like we're gonna have a GPT for our curation team
that curates knowledge,
and we're building a GPT that, you know,
my hope is that it'll go to physicians,
to oncologists and genomic counselors
and other providers that could actually use this thing.
Eventually, if it becomes robust enough and stable enough,
and I don't feel like we're doing a disservice,
we could certainly make a version of that available
for cancer patients as well.
I would, you know, I'd love to have that.
I just wanna make sure that it's done in a responsible way.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Well, I honestly hope that you actually do such a good job
that we don't have to have cancer research anymore,
but that's a long, long-term goal, right?
- That is definitely the end goal.
And that's really exciting too,
so is that the new drugs that are coming out,
new treatments that are coming out,
it's really just about making sure people are aware of it,
making sure that they're getting the genetic testing
that they need, right?
So if you have a loved one that has,
unfortunately has cancer,
make sure that they're at least asking their doctor
the question about genomic testing
to make sure that they're getting
the best possible treatment.
- Sounds good.
All right, well, quickly before we get out of here,
recommendation on some libraries, some project
that maybe we haven't talked about yet,
something you came across, people were like,
"Oh, this would be awesome."
- We ran out of time.
I was gonna talk about some of these Pydantic projects.
So there's Marvin, Instructor, and Outlines.
So folks should definitely look at those.
So basically what you do is you take,
you can describe stuff as Pydantic,
and then it'll actually just extract it right
into that Pydantic model for you.
And that's, so Marvin and Outlines and Instructor.
So check those guys out, they're awesome.
And then the other one that I actually had teed up
was VisiCalc.
So VisiCalc is like this crazy command line tool.
It's awesome.
Like you can basically look at giant CSV files
all on the command line.
It has like these hotkeys that you can do.
And it, sorry, not VisiCalc, Visidata.
- Visidata, okay.
- And so basically it's just,
it's basically Excel inside your terminal.
And this was before Rich and Textual project.
And it was just like, it was kind of mind blowing
all the stuff that this person was able to figure out
how to make work.
- That's super amazing.
I just wanted to give a shout out one more thing,
'cause your Visidata reminded me of something
I just came across called Btop.
- Yep, yep, yep.
- People have servers out there
and they need to know what's going on with their server.
Where's my, I need a picture for this.
But yeah, it's like a nice visualization.
There's also a Bhytop.
It's pretty amazing what people can do in the terminal.
Oh, there they are.
They're just responsive design themselves out.
But yeah, if you want a bunch of live graphs,
every time I see stuff like this,
the Visidata or this or what textual folks are working on,
it's just like, I can't believe they built this.
I'm working at the level of Colorama.
This string is red right here.
They're like, oh yeah, we rebuilt it.
- I got an emoji to show up, right?
I'm excited.
- Yes, exactly, yes.
A rocket ship is there, not just tech.
- Yeah, pretty excellent.
All right.
Well, Ian, thank you for being here
and keep up the good work.
I know so many people are using LLMs,
but not that many people are creating LLMs.
And as developers, we love to create things.
We already have the tools to do it.
People can check out your GitHub repo on the high PI GPT
and use it as a starting place, right?
- Sounds great.
Yeah, and definitely reach out if you have any questions.
- Excellent.
Well, thanks for coming back on the show.
Catch you all later.
- Great, good to talk to you.
Bye bye.
- Bye.
This has been another episode of Talk Python to Me.
Thank you to our sponsors.
Be sure to check out what they're offering.
It really helps support the show.
Take some stress out of your life.
Get notified immediately about errors
and performance issues in your web
or mobile applications with Sentry.
Just visit talkpython.fm/sentry and get started for free.
And be sure to use the promo code, talkpython, all one word.
It's time to stop asking relational databases
to do more than they were made for
and simplify complex data models with graphs.
Check out the sample FastAPI project
and see what Neo4j, a native graph database, can do for you.
Find out more at talkpython.fm/neo4j.
Want to level up your Python?
We have one of the largest catalogs
of Python video courses over at Talk Python.
Our content ranges from true beginners
to deeply advanced topics like memory and async.
And best of all, there's not a subscription in sight.
Check it out for yourself at training.talkpython.fm.
Be sure to subscribe to the show,
open your favorite podcast app, and search for Python.
We should be right at the top.
You can also find the iTunes feed at /itunes,
the Google Play feed at /play,
and the direct RSS feed at /rss on talkpython.fm.
We're live streaming most of our recordings these days.
If you want to be part of the show
and have your comments featured on the air,
be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel
at talkpython.fm/youtube.
This is your host, Michael Kennedy.
Thanks so much for listening.
I really appreciate it.
Now get out there and write some Python code.
(upbeat music)
--